---
layout: single
title: FabLearn - Thoughts
categories: pd education
---
I'm at the FabLearn's Stanford conference this weekend. It's been amazing, and I'm so glad to have been on a roundtable for CTE and Maker Education. Lots of short thoughts here, with more detail to come.

# Day 1

### Welcome

We started with a welcome from Paulo Blikstein. He warned of outside & professional disruptors who will try to take over. Tech companies are certifying teachers on their own projects, and teachers are being absorbed into ambassadorship programs to promote specific projects. It's a tricky situation - learning and professional development are great, and Google and Microsoft provide great training for using their products, and ambassadorships can help teachers offer students access to tools that don't fit their budget. However, teachers are becoming branded, schools are getting locked into ecosystems, and I worry that this drives purchasing and curriculum decisions. Not everything has to be open source and pure, but we need to remember that these companies give us money, certifications, and recognition for a reason. It can be beneficial for the students if used well, but we need to remember keep in mind that the companies are still out to serve themselves.

> Education is not neutral and apolitical

There's been a lot of discussion of inclusion and diversity. This is important, and we all need to think about it and work towards it. Not just for our students, either - how do we get more diversity among the decision makers? Vast majority of people here are white and generally fairly privileged. To paraphrase Tamora Pearson, culturally neutral isn't neutral, because the assumption is white male unless otherwise specified. 

### Keynote - Self-made: The Body as a Frontier for the Maker Movement in Education - Mike Eisenberg

Mike talked about body mods and self expression as part of the maker movement, and a part which has particular appeal to young people. It was great to hear inclusion of hackers, cosplayers, goths, and other subcultures as makers. Mike brought up a great point about the relative impacts of body mods such as tattoos and non-earlobe piercings for teenagers as opposed to parents pushing their children to be prodigies. 

> Maybe the body is a kind of warranty and we shouldn't be afraid to void it.

It's interesting to think about whether we can make ourselves into better makers. How could body modifications be useful? How do we get past the visceral disgust many people experience with certain body modifications? How about other negative reactions?

### Sustainable Educational Change Panel

Maker education has been through three major movements - what will be the fourth?

As identified by the panelists:
Maker education movement 1 was the Papert era, with a big push for constructivism, and is best known for Logo and Turtle. As computers and software became easier and more packaged, this faded out gradually. Second era was the start of the big push towards learning through creating games instead of playing educational games. Scratch played a big role in this. The current maker movement is making an attempt to be broader and more inclusive of different types of making and different participants. E-textiles and other electronics are big here.

We need to think about what we're preparing our students for and remember that education swings between liberal arts and CTE. We need to find ways to push towards assessments that incorporate the things we value and we need to remember to make sure the underlying values are strong enough to survive changes in educational policy.

### Poster Session